Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you an Action, Drama, Sci-fi
film from 2012, titled Chronicle.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Andrew has just bought a new camera and explains
to his drunken father (Richard) behind the
door that he will be filming everything from
now on.
His mother is terminally ill and bedridden.
Matt, Andrew's cousin, picks him up and drives
him to school.
Matt questions Andrew's filming, but awkwardly
accepts it when he claims it's just something
he does now.
Although Matt is the closest thing to a friend
Andrew has, he still avoids him at school.
There is a campaign going on.
He eats breakfast alone in the bleachers and
films the football team and cheerleaders practicing.
One of the girls scolds him for being creepy.
On his way to his locker, he is ganged up
on by school's bullies.
One of them takes his camera and films Wayne
slapping him.
On the way home, Matt invites Andrew to a
party he wants to attend.
He is hesitant, but Matt insists because this
is his last chance to do something for once,
since he's already a senior.
Andrew says he'll think about it.
Matt then suggests that maybe he should leave
the camera behind since it might alienate
people from him, but Andrew insists it's important.
That night, Andrew sits in his room watching
his video footage.
His drunken father Richard bursts into his
room, slaps and throws Andrew off his chair,
and demands that he open the door when he
says so.
Neither his family life nor his school life
are particularly good.
Afterwards, Andrew decides to attend the party
Matt was talking about.
At the party, Matt insists that he get away
from him and go socialize with people.
He is embarrassed to be with Andrew.
Andrew's filming catches the attention of
Casey, who is also filming the party.
Matt shows up and tries to make a pass at
her, but completely fails.
Andrew makes fun of him.
However, as the party continues, a drunk partygoer
takes notice of Andrew and claims he's filming
his girlfriend.
He sprays him with a drink and spits on him.
Andrew leaves the rave in despair and cries
outside.
Andrew is approached by Steve Montgomery,
the school's popular star quarterback and
future politician, to accompany him to record
something strange he has found in the nearby
woods: a hole in the ground from which a loud
and strange sound emanates.
Andrew is hesitant, but when he hears that
Matt will be there, he agrees.
The three enter the hole and discover a large,
blue glowing crystalline object.
When Steve touches it, the object turns red
and the group is plagued by nosebleeds and
pain.
When they are thrown out of the cave by a
force, the camera cuts off.
Weeks later, Andrew films himself with a brand
new camera, Matt and Steve displaying telekinetic
abilities.
They perform a ball test, where Matt tries
to stop the ball with his mind, but fails.
To get revenge, Matt throws the ball sideways
and hits Steve.
Andrew takes his turn and stops the ball in
its tracks.
They suffer from nosebleeds when they overexert
themselves.
Of the three, Andrew is the one doing the
best with his newfound abilities.
While Matt has trouble putting two Lego pieces
together, Andrew has no trouble building an
entire tower in seconds.
They return to the hole, but find that it
has collapsed.
The sheriff's department is sealing off the
area for safety reasons.
As he rides along with Steve in his car, the
two become closer.
Steve also questions Andrew's filming habits
and believes he is putting up a barrier around
himself.
Andrew thinks that's probably what he wants.
Andrew tells Steve about his unhealthy home
life with his sick mother and drunk father.
Later that night in Andrew's room, Richard
argues loudly with someone on the phone and
reveals that he is struggling financially
to keep his mother healthy.
Andrew looks distraught as he levitates the
camera.
Andrew is at the docks with his mother.
She knows she does not have long and is trying
to strengthen her son.
As Andrew talks to Matt while skipping stones,
he asks him if Matt is thinking of making
something more of their power.
At the bleachers, Matt theorizes that their
abilities function like a muscle that gets
stronger with use.
Andrew suggests taking their abilities out
of the backyard.
The three boys develop a close friendship
and begin to use their abilities to play pranks,
such as scaring children by unleashing toys
on them at a market.
They try to pull a piece of gum out of a man's
mouth, which they fail to do.
Twice.
In a coffee store, they also find that they
can create an invisible barrier around themselves
that protects them.
Andrew makes a silhouette of the Virgin Mary
and scares the waitress.
In a parking lot, they move a car.
The lady is confused when she returns.
However, things go too far when Andrew pushes
a rude trucker off the road and into a river.
Steve rescues the man from the river and Matt
calls the authorities to get the man medical
treatment.
They are shocked and outraged that Andrew
would go so far.
Andrew does not understand their anger.
Matt reminds him that he put a human being
in the hospital.
Matt then makes three rules: they never use
their powers against living beings, they never
use them out of anger or rage, and they probably
should not use them in public anymore.
Despite Andrew's objections, he's overruled
when Matt insists that's exactly what they
need now that they are getting stronger, and
Steve agrees.
The next day, Steve asks Andrew and Matt to
meet with him.
On the way there, Matt makes it clear that
while he's not mad at Andrew, he still thinks
that now that they are getting stronger, they
should think before they do anything.
Although they meet where Steve said they would,
he is not immediately found until Steve reveals
himself to them floating in the sky, having
learned how to fly.
Although Matt has a harder time keeping up,
Andrew is the first to get it right immediately.
Not long after, all 3 are in the air, floating
in the clouds and having fun.
A passing plane knocks Steve to the ground,
but Andrew saves him from a fatal fall.
They admit to each other that this was the
best day of their lives and agree to fly around
the world together after graduation.
Andrew expresses interest in visiting Tibet
for its peaceful nature.
Steve and Matt agree.
Matt goes to Casey's house and tries to appeal
to her, claiming he's not the nerd he used
to be.
Meanwhile, Steve and Andrew sit on top of
the town needle.
Steve praises his skill with the ability he
has.
They talk about their possible futures and
how Andrew's relationship with Matt was different
before high school.
They were close friends before Matt started
avoiding him.
In a way, Steve is a friend that Andrew never
had.
Steve encourages Andrew to enter the school
talent show to gain some popularity.
Before he goes, his mother shows her admiration
for his friends, but his drunken father is
suspicious of how Andrew gets to school without
Matt driving him.
He thinks he's up to something and tells Andrew
he's on to him.
At the talent show, Andrew baffles his classmates
by disguising his powers as an impressive
display of magic tricks.
He drops cards and then collects them back.
Rope dancing while juggling.
That night, the trio celebrates at a house
party where Andrew is in the center of attention.
After having drinks with his classmate Monica,
Andrew and her go upstairs to pop that cherry.
Casey is also at the party and they hit it
off when Casey invites Matt to go somewhere
else with her.
Meanwhile, Steve goes upstairs to congratulate
Andrew on his success, but he hears Monica
scream in disgust as she storms out of the
room with vomit on her blouse.
He goes into the room and finds Andrew sitting
there humiliated.
Steve tries to comfort him that this kind
of thing happens and not to worry, but Andrew
angrily pushes him out of the room.
Andrew becomes increasingly withdrawn and
hostile.
His father eventually discovers Andrew's camera
and berates him for keeping such an expensive
item for himself while he struggles financially.
He also falsely accuses Andrew of wasting
all his money and claims Matt and Steve are
not his friends, calling him an embarrassment.
Andrew counters and calls him an idiot.
This infuriates Richard even more, so he physically
attacks him.
Andrew uses his ability to overpower him,
throwing him against a wall and claiming that
he could crush him if he wanted to, and throws
the defeated Richard to the ground.
His rampage causes Steve and Matt's noses
to bleed and hurt.
Matt ignores the nosebleed to continue his
date with Casey, but Steve is drawn to Andrew,
who is adrift in the middle of a storm.
Andrew asks how he found him and explains
how the nosebleed led him to him.
He notices Andrew's black eye and realizes
his father did it to him.
An emotionally distraught Andrew tells him
to stop pretending to care about his situation
because he does not think Steve was his friend
to begin with.
Steve reminds him that he's always been there
for him and Matt, but Andrew grows increasingly
frustrated and keeps telling Steve to leave
him alone until Steve is suddenly struck by
lightning and killed.
At Steve's funeral, Matt confronts Andrew
about the suspicious circumstances of Steve's
death: even though Steve was killed by lightning,
the news has not reported lightning strikes
and his body was found in a field, but there
was no reason for him to be out there.
He's also outraged that Andrew is filming
at a funeral and demands that he turns off
the camera, but Andrew refuses and tells Matt
to back off.
He denies knowing about it or being responsible
for it, but Matt does not believe him.
It later turns out that Matt was right when
Andrew privately asks for forgiveness at Steve's
grave, believing that his abilities are possessing
him and that he misses him.
Andrew distances himself from Matt and feels
alone and unpopular at school again.
After being bullied again by Wayne, he uses
his powers to rip several teeth out of Wayne's
mouth.
Andrew begins to see himself as a predator
and feels that he should not feel guilty about
using his powers to harm weaker people.
As his mother's condition worsens, Andrew
goes to get his mother's medication.
Before he leaves, Matt shows up in Andrew's
room and confronts him about the incident
at school with Wayne.
Annoyed, Andrew tries to brush him off, but
Matt gets aggressive and reminds him of the
rules.
Andrew, finally fed up with Matt, aggressively
assures him that he's not breaking the rules
and tells him to stay out of his life.
At the pharmacy, Andrew finds out his mother's
medication is too expensive.
As a result, he decides to use his powers
to steal money for her medicine, equipping
his fathers firefighter suit.
After robbing some local thugs, he robs a
gas station where he accidentally causes an
explosion that sends him to the hospital where
the police investigate him.
At his bedside, his grieving father informs
the unconscious Andrew that his mother has
died.
Furious, he blames Andrew for her death and
accuses him of forcing him out of the house
to look for him when his mother needed him.
Believing that Andrew can hear what he is
telling him, he demands that Andrew gets up
and apologizes to him for taking him away
from her in her final time of need.
Andrew wakes up, grabs his father's hand,
and blows up the outside wall of the hospital
room.
Matt is attending a family birthday party
with Casey when he suddenly gets a nosebleed
and senses that Andrew is in trouble.
He sees a report on the TV news about the
explosion at the hospital and knows Andrew
is involved.
Matt and Casey head to the hospital and find
Andrew hovering outside the building with
his father dangling above the ground by his
ankle.
Andrew accuses his father of driving him insane
and drops him, only to be rescued by Matt.
Andrew proceeds to wreak havoc with his powers,
picking up Matt's car and nearly killing Casey
before Matt saves her life.
Matt confronts Andrew at the Space Needle
and tries to talk some sense into him, telling
him that it's not too late to turn everything
around and they can start over.
Andrew disagrees and berates Matt for abandoning
him when he needed him.
Matt admits his mistakes, but is willing to
make amends if Andrew stops his attacks.
He tries to remind Andrew that this is not
who he is, but Andrew declares himself the
Apex Predator and attacks Matt.
The two fight across the city, breaking through
buildings and flinging vehicles as Matt continues
to try and talk to the injured and angry Andrew.
He begins to use his powers to destroy the
buildings around him, threatening many other
lives.
Unable to get through to Andrew, Matt snatches
a spear from a nearby statue and impales Andrew
with it, killing him.
The police surround Matt, but he flies away.
Some time later, Matt lands in Tibet with
Andrew's camera.
Matt positions the camera to see a Tibetan
monastery in the distance and says, "You did
it."
Before flying away, he says goodbye to "Andrew"
and leaves the camera behind to continue recording
the quiet scene.
The end.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.